Welcome to the killer feature! Clone an
entire production repo regardless of size
, and break nothing.
One parent repo fans out into as many
independent clones as you want. Each fork
is its own isolated environment running
side by side with the original.
Think of sharing a folder link. The link is
the same lightweight thing whether the folder is small
or huge, and forking works on the same
principle.
One gigabyte, one hundred gigabytes
, one terabyte: the fork behaves the
same. Repo size does not factor
into the equation.
Now the fork. One command will clone
the entire repo, the app, the database
, the config files, regardless of size
. One gigabyte, one hundred gigabytes, one terabyte
: the size simply does not matter.
Fork done. The clone is up and running, regardless
of size.
Both repos exist side by side now. Same
machine, same disk, two completely
independent environments.
Two repos, one disk. Same data, separate
everything else.
Let us prove the isolation. In the original
, our marker file is right where we left it. The
fork existence did not change anything in the
parent.
Original file still there. The fork
didn't touch it.
The parent repo is the sun and your fork
is a mirror catching its light. The shared base
stays untouched while anything you paint
on the mirror belongs only to you.
Now let us delete that file, but only inside
the fork. We are making a destructive change
here.
Gone in the fork. The original stays untouched.
Back to the original. The marker file is still here
, untouched. Same image, separate
Docker daemons, separate filesystems.
Still here. Forks are properly isolated.
When you are done, just delete the fork. The
original stays exactly as it was. Fork
, experiment, break things, delete
. No risk.
Fork removed. The original is exactly
as we left it.
A fork is a frozen photograph of the parent
at one instant. The parent keeps flowing
like a river, but your snapshot stays exactly
where it was.
Five forks of a hundred gigabyte repo still
add up to about a hundred gigabytes on disk
. You only pay for the bytes you actually change inside
each fork.
You just saw the commands.
Next we make it visual:
a real database app,
forked live,
edited side by side — and
the original never flinches.